Hello everybody and welcome back in this lecture.
We're going to focus on Billions.
It's going to be more of a refresher and a reminder because we covered them in the last section as well
but we're going to be focused on their implementation in this game and specifically with unreal as well.
So at the moment we've got nothing.
Checking whether the game is won or not which is quite strange.
But then again we're going to fix it right now.
Now boolean variables in Unreal are prefixed with a B.
So as an example we've got the B game over variable and its type is a bully.
Now in this lecture we'll see there are multiple ways that you could accomplish this.
And it does depend on what type of language you prefer as well.
So we could say if the game is not over do this or if the game overs do this first.
So there be two main ways of doing this.
However there's no real right or wrong.
It will depend on your language structure or the team's language structure which are working in.
So first of all at pseudocode up what we want to accomplish make sure it makes some sense.
And then we can start putting in the proper code and in order to do that we're going to have to hop
on over into v s code okay.
So we're over MVS code.
Now the first thing I'm going to think about is where we're going to actually sets the game over to
true.
So let's have a look further down so before we implement how it's going to work let's think about where
it's going to happen.
So if we actually win the game the game is over.
So this is a place where we can set a variable which we've not declared yet.
So I'm going to comment it out be game over.
We're going to set it to true and obviously once we finish our coding we can uncommon.
That's to make it work.
Now whilst we're here with that single comment line there you can comment out individual lines with
control and Slash.
And so you can toggle them backwards and forwards which is really useful in our case here as we're starting
to implement things.
Now our game at the moment really does only have a win and lose condition because we don't and haven't
implemented lives which we will do in the next lecture.
So at the moment we've just got one guess and you either guess it right or wrong.
And here we go you have lost and we can also set our B game over variable to true and for the rest of
the game it's really going to be false.
And that now well would be a good place to set that's what we've got.
Begin play and so we set up the game as one of the first things we do.
So since you starting in the game and we're setting up that game this would be a great place within
that function because the first thing in our game that's called we can set it to false at that point
just go all the way down to where this function is defined.
This is where we can set up the game over variable to false and of course comments out that line.
Now one of the things that I wants to point out here not only is my capitalization off but is also the
fact that this big game over is being used in multiple places.
So what type of variable does that make it.
If you're thinking member variable then you're correct because we're using this variable all over our
code.
We can go to our header file and declare it over in our declarations.
So we've got a ball B game over.
And of course we're not going to give it a value because this is just about declaring it.
I'm going to save it had a file and go back into our implementation.
Now at the moment we're going to run into a slight issue with our code and I can foresee it simply because
this code is evaluated when the player hits enter.
So when we start putting code in here we are going to potentially be able to get something right or
wrong.
And the game wouldn't be over yet until the next time the player hits enter.
We'll sort that out later on.
That's just a bug that we'll have to focus on and clear up so we're talking about if the game is over
then do something that's not very descriptive.
What would that something be.
Well in this case we could prompt them to play again or and then quit the game.
But to keep things simple at the moment when the game is over let's go ahead and clear the screen and
reset up the game so that they can play it again.
So instead of doing something let's clear the screen down and reset up the game we shall be simply setting
the game up.
There we go we can call that function.
And since this is a function here as well is it really up to you style wise whether you decide to code
things in explicitly like this to say well then we're going to do this clear screen function and then
setup game or whether you want to keep it a bit more generic.
It's entirely up to you.
And then of course we really want to go what what are we going to do.
Well if the game is not over will simply be checking the player I guess.
So we've got here checking player guess.
So I'm going to shift that up and merge it in here.
That's absolutely fine.
Elsewhere checking the player gates which is what's beneath at the moment.
Now notice the language that I've used.
I've said if the game is over then do this clear screen this sets up game.
Now you could quite easily say here if the game is not over then do.
Then do the play I guess and then else clear the screen and set up the game.
Both are valid.
So we'd have to move this up here and then this down here.
So they're perfectly valid ways of writing the code.
Personally I like to think of it the game is over.
I like to speak in the positive when necessary.
So I'm going to set mine back so my pseudocode is reading like so.
So if the game is over there we're going to clear the screen set up the game.
Otherwise we're going to be checking the player guess which at the moment is only this validation check
that we've got here and nothing else.
Okay that's good for me.
And one final thing before your challenge.
We've got two comments next to each other here.
If you would code this sounds a bit more formally where you have got the if statement there but you've
just commented it out.
What we can do is a comment block itself.
So I'm going to get rid of those comment lines and do a comment block instead.
Now you can get at this underneath the Edit menu we've been using the toggle line comment which is control
and slash.
However we can do a toggle block comment we should shift out an A.
So in this particular case if you had let's say perhaps a few more lines code in this will go shift
Dalton a.
And it would comments that block out now.
Personally what I prefer is to have it even the side of that.
So I would highlight the line above and below and comments it sounds like so but it's entirely up to
you how you decide to comment your lines out.
In this case because there's only two I'm going to come out with my line comments.
Okay.
I think we've got enough information here in order to do our challenge okay.
So here comes your challenge it's going to be slightly larger than the last couple of challenges.
So do take your time and go through your code methodically making sure that what you think is happening
is actually happening.
The first thing I want you to do is create an end game function that we can call.
We're going to create this end game function simply because we're going to end the game as we've discussed
at multiple points.
We might as well get it to do the same thing at those multiple points as well.
Now get it to set the big game over to true and instruct the player to press and continue within the
main game function implement an if statement checking if the game is over or not and run our existing
code if it's not over so we're going to have what we have before on inputs while within the on input
function we're going to start checking the code and of course at the moment we've discovered that as
we reset the game it's that she welcomed the player again nor does it give the player any instructions
as to what to do which is a bit of a bug in itself just in our code flow.
So we'll be moving the welcome perhaps into game set up that will be a good place to place it supports
a video now spend about 10 15 minutes I should imagine it will take most people to do this and I'll
see you all back in a few minutes okay everybody welcome back how did you get on a bit challenging when
we start moving code around as well as thinking about implementing something new as well.
Hope you got on.
Okay let's go over and see how I ended up with a better behaving code.
Okay so this is where we left off before.
I think what we can do here.
Let's let's play through the game methodically and see what we need to do.
So we begin playing and we set up the game.
Now the problem at the moment is that we don't have this debug line anywhere else.
I'm going to leave it right at the top here.
It's easy to turn on and off but this whole welcoming the player you'd make much more sense than that
for that to actually be in the setup of the game itself.
So what we can do here is we can welcome the player.
I'm not going to put the welcoming of the player into its own function.
What we will do however is move all of this code and prompt the player for gas.
That's essentially what we're doing here anyway so we might as well move into the position and then
let's remove that and put it down here in the setup game.
Now it won't all be on one line.
The reason for that is we welcome the player.
That makes sense.
But then we're asking the player on line 58 here to guess the number of character letter word.
Okay.
The problem here is we haven't actually set the hidden word yet.
So we're going to have to do that.
So we're going to welcome the player.
Then we're going to set the hidden word which is fine.
We might as well set the lives at the same time.
And we go ahead.
And here we are giving the player some instructions typing your guess.
I'm going to put a full stop in there and pop a new line in and then say press sense to continue.
That's going to solve that issue that we've currently got with the words wrapping round.
And then finally we need to set our big game over to false.
Now we can do that at any point.
In fact I'm going to pop it up here with the rest of our variables that we've got so far so they are
all grouped together.
And finally I'm going to remove this extra whitespace at the bottom.
Okay that's great.
So we've done the first part here we're now welcoming the player that makes this a lot easier to read.
First of all we set up the game then we're going to jump straight into assessing the players input when
they press enter.
I'm going to leave as if said the debug line at the very top here so I can turn on and off and I'm going
to remove this extra whitespace that we've got underneath.
Okay perfect.
Now comes this slot here.
I'm going to I think just think about how this is going to run.
I'm not going to clear the screen on the first run to clear the screen on the first run your instructions
disappear as soon as you press enter.
That doesn't seem a great way of playing the game right.
First of all we need to think about our if statements.
So we've got the code underneath Let's type it below this have are also fell doesn't block our way so
first of all if the game is over.
That's the language that I'm using.
So I start typing that we'll get our B game over available to us and then we're going to talk about
what to do so let's open up our curly brackets.
And by the way we do not have to hear say if the B game over is equal to true.
This is going to either be true or false right from the offset.
So let's go ahead and remove that extra bit of code and let's think about what we're going to do here.
So if the game is over we're going to clear the screen and then we can just go ahead and set up a new
game.
Now when it comes to setting up a new game eventually we'll have that bringing in a new hidden word.
So that's great.
So that restarts the game.
So what are we doing here.
If the input.
Oh this would be our l statements.
So we've got else here followed by the rest of our code.
So let's just clean up the formatting there and then we're going to simply grab what we've got already.
Remember to grab your curly braces at either end and chuck that into the right place.
Excellent.
And we've got the right level of indentation there as well.
So we've got this repeated area here if B game over equals true.
So this is where we can add in our end game function.
So what we're really going to do is all the way down here.
So we're going to go first of all you.
Ball.
Colon code on end game.
I can't think of a better name for our function as long as it's spelled correctly.
And the function itself is going to do two things.
It's going to set our B game over equal to true.
The next thing that is going to do after I've pop the item that I've missed is given instructions.
So this is where we're going to print out to our term and also print line.
Then we're going to use our text macro and then we're going to say something.
So this case I'm just going to go press and to continue.
But wait no it's not continuing.
It's to play again.
Then the final thing we need to declare the end game function exists and we're going to go over into
our head file.
It's not returning anything.
So we can just go void and game save our head a file.
Now we've gotten rid of all of our squiggles that's remove this whitespace as well.
Let's run through our code.
OK.
So this is quite self-explanatory here.
If the game is over then we're going to do what's in those curly brackets so I can delete that comment.
Now the else we're going to be checking the player.
I guess that's fine.
I will add that down here just as a summary that gives us a hint that perhaps we need to have something
here that's a bit more readable because otherwise we're just doing something that it's not apparent
at the moment that we're just checking the player guess other than if you start reading through the
rest of the code it'll be good here if it says else we're checking player guests or checking guests
or processing the guests.
There's lots of variations that we can do that.
The final thing we need to do is just trim up these extra comments.
So we've got that delete line 25 as well.
OK.
So format wise that looks great.
We now not need to add in our end game here.
So because if we've won the game we're going to end the game that's fine.
OK.
So we also need to add in here end game which is fine but then oh here we go.
We have not really we're not trying again at this point because our game is set up without any lives.
So let's make sure this reads correctly this isn't going to be try again.
It will be you have lost.
And of course we know from experience that this is not going to wrap around the terminal so let's pop
in our new line.
And there we go you have lost in the game we don't need this.
Bits of code anymore on line 35 34 is redundant whitespace.
I think we've got it there.
Let's save it.
Go over into bool cow.
Compile our code and make sure that it works oh the compilers failed.
What have I missed.
Let's show the log.
So we're talking about.
Where is it.
Line 70.
Let's go have a look at line 70.
You can see in the brackets there we're talking about line 70.
Let's go over what have I done something really silly.
Yes I've missed my semicolon off at the end of my code.
So there we go.
And if we read the code fully if I expand this window out It even tells us what we're missing.
There we go.
Let's close that down click compile.
Excellent work this time.
Press Play welcome of all girls guess the five letter word typing you guessed press any press Enter
to continue the hit and where word is cakes and that's something we can remove out and that's fine is
moved the position of the hidden word is cakes because we do all of this first let's go ahead and play
our game and make sure it works if I type in cakes says you have one press Enter to play again we present
to play again it resets the game perfect Let's type in something wrong hidden word is five characters
long you have lost Princess enter to play again it clears them the screen.
This is good behavior now okay.
So in summary if we type in nothing or a word with the note wrong number of characters.
Notice that if we type anything in here it will just reset the game that's desired behavior we don't
want it guessing again so that's fine if we type in case we get you have 1 percent to play again but
if we type in something that's got the right number of letters it doesn't do anything in fact we don't
even have an assessment at the moment as to whether or not we have any repeats of characters but that's
fine we will deal with that as we progress our code.
Brilliant.
How did you guys get on did you get working code at the end with a similar behavior to this.
Did you structure your code slightly differently.
I'll be really interested to see how you coded in this behavior and I'll see you all in the next lecture.